manuscript/08_hangouts.md, before:

# Google Hangouts

Google Hangouts is a communication platform by Google and includes tools such as video chat, instant messaging, and SMS. Google Hangouts is mostly famous for the video conferencing feature. You can video chat with up to 10 people at the same time and instant message a team of up to 150 people. Google has added features from its previous services Google Voice and Google Talk to Google Hangouts. Google Hangouts is a good alternative to Skype.

One of the nice features of Hangouts is that it syncs automatically across devices, i.e. you can start a Hangouts on your phone and continue your chat on another device such as your laptop. 

### How to start a video chat?

Like any other Google service, you need a Google account in order to use Hangouts. You can either go to the link [https://hangouts.google.com](https://hangouts.google.com) or on your Chromebook, lunch Google Hangout from the App menu. If you're not logged in to your Google account, first log in. You will then be able to see a screen like this:

![Google Hangouts Picture](images/08_hangouts/08_google_hangouts-1.png)

To initiate a video call simply click on the "Video Call" button located at the center of the screen.

![Video call button](images/08_hangouts/08_google_hangouts-2.png)

When this button is clicked a new screen will pop-up as shown below. To invite people to your google hangouts you can either search them by their names or emails or you can press the "Copy Link To Share" button and send them an invite link. 

![Inviting people](images/08_hangouts/08_google_hangouts-3.png)

During the video call if you press on the button at the very right corner 5 settings will show up:
1. Share screen
2. Fullscreen
3. Chat
4. Help
5. Feedback

If you want to share your screen with people currently in your hangout simply click on the "Share Screen" option and choose either to share your entire screen or just one specific application window that you have open.

![Share screen options](images/08_hangouts/08_google_hangouts-4.png)

You can stop sharing your screen by pressing on the "STOP" button located at the top of the screen. If you want to make the video call into fullscreen you can press the "Fullscreen" button on the same menu. Sometimes you need to type a message to everyone in the video call. You can do this by pressing the "Chat" button that will show a pop-up as the one shown below on the lower left corner.

![Message pop-up](images/08_hangouts/08_google_hangouts-5.png)

For more information or if you are unsure about anything you can always click on the "Help" option that will open a new window with tutorials and guides on how to solve problems and explanations on how to use Google Hangouts.

### How to make a phone call in Hangouts?

Surprisingly, you can also make a phone call in Google Hangouts. You can do this by firs pressing on the "Phone Call" button.

![Phone call button](images/08_hangouts/08_google_hangouts-6.png)

To enter a phone number you can press on the "New Conversation" button on the left menu. After entering the number you can select what country you want to call and simply press "Call".

![Making calls](images/08_hangouts/08_google_hangouts-7.png)

### How to send a message in Hangouts?

To message people who have Google accounts you can start by pressing on the "Message" button.

![Message button](images/08_hangouts/08_google_hangouts-8.png)

Afterwards you can enter the names, email, or phone number of the people you want to message. When you find the correct person you can simply click on them and that will open a conversation box. You can also create a group chat by pressing on the "New group" button.

### How to start a group conversation?

In Hangouts, you can have a video/audio/text conversation with multiple people at the same time. You can have a conversation with up to 150 people and a video call with up to 25 people at the same time. Everyone who wants to join a group conversation must use Hangouts. In order to start a conversation with multiple people click on New conversation and then click on New group.

![New Conversation](images/08_hangouts/08_google_hangouts-9.png)

Now, you can enter or select the names, phone numbers, or email addresses of all the people you want to add to the group. When you're done, you can click on the check mark and click on Message or Video call.


### Slides and Video

![Google Hangouts](https://youtu.be/CBiUP3Pj7mI)

* [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/14u2fp3D2t-umKnFOSfIxyDwfjIDMKJ9cBtqYUh_E93o/edit?usp=sharing)

{quiz, id: quiz_09_hangouts}

### Google Sheets quiz

? What is the maximum number of people you can video chat with in Google Hangouts?

a) 2
b) 5
C) 25
d) Unlimited

? Which one of the following is NOT a feature of Google Hangouts?

a) Audio conversations
b) Video conversations
c) Text conversations
D) Sending large attachments

{/quiz}

Commit message:

Initial changes to Google Hangouts; not complete yet

manuscript/08_hangouts.md, after:

# Google Hangouts

Google Hangouts is a communication platform by Google and includes tools such as messaging and video chat.  Google Hangouts is also famous for its video conferencing feature; you can video chat with up to 10 people at the same time and message a team of up to 150 people. These features make Google Hangouts an excellent tool for staying connected with collaborators, employers, and friends.

An additional bonus feature of Hangouts is that it syncs automatically across different devices.  That is, you can start a Hangout on your phone and continue your chat on another device such as your laptop. 

### Accessing your Google Hangout account

Like the other Google services we've talked about, you need a Google account in order to use Hangouts. To access your Hangouts account, You can either go to the Hangouts URL at [https://hangouts.google.com](https://hangouts.google.com) or click on the start menu located on the lower left hand corner of your Chromebook and searching for "Hangouts".  If you're not already logged in to your Google account, first you'll need to log in. Here's a screenshot of Jane's Google Hangouts screen:

![Google Hangouts Picture](images/08_hangouts/08_google_hangouts-1.png)

On this screen you can see that there are options for making a video call, a phone call, or sending a text message.

### Starting a video chat

You can initiate a video call by clicking on the "Video Call" button located at the center of the screen.

![Video call button](images/08_hangouts/08_google_hangouts-2.png)

When this button is clicked, a new window will open for the video call.  Google Hangouts may request permission to use your computer's camera and microphone for the call.  If you see this request, you should click "Allow" to continue your call.   

![Granting Google Hangouts access to microphone and camera](images/08_hangouts/08_google_hangouts-3.png)

Once you've given permission, you'll be taken to your call.  You can invite people to your video call in two ways.  One option is to enter their names or email addresses directly into the invitation box and click "Invite."  Another way is to click the "Copy Link To Share" button and paste this link into an your own email invitation.  This second option is an easy way to invite a large number of people to a video call.

![Inviting people](images/08_hangouts/08_google_hangouts-4.png)

Notice that if you have already exchanged emails with someone, meaning they are in your Gmail address book, they will automatically show up when you begin to type in the invitation box.  In this case, we see John.Everyday.Doe's contact information when we just type "John" into the box.

![Auto-complete of contacts](images/08_hangouts/08_google_hangouts-5.png)

During the video call if you press on the button at the very right corner 5 settings will show up:
1. Share screen
2. Fullscreen
3. Chat
4. Help
5. Feedback

If you want to share your screen with people currently in your hangout simply click on the "Share Screen" option and choose either to share your entire screen or just one specific application window that you have open.

![Share screen options](images/08_hangouts/08_google_hangouts-4.png)

You can stop sharing your screen by pressing on the "STOP" button located at the top of the screen. If you want to make the video call into fullscreen you can press the "Fullscreen" button on the same menu. Sometimes you need to type a message to everyone in the video call. You can do this by pressing the "Chat" button that will show a pop-up as the one shown below on the lower left corner.

![Message pop-up](images/08_hangouts/08_google_hangouts-5.png)

For more information or if you are unsure about anything you can always click on the "Help" option that will open a new window with tutorials and guides on how to solve problems and explanations on how to use Google Hangouts.

### How to make a phone call in Hangouts?

Surprisingly, you can also make a phone call in Google Hangouts. You can do this by firs pressing on the "Phone Call" button.

![Phone call button](images/08_hangouts/08_google_hangouts-6.png)

To enter a phone number you can press on the "New Conversation" button on the left menu. After entering the number you can select what country you want to call and simply press "Call".

![Making calls](images/08_hangouts/08_google_hangouts-7.png)

### How to send a message in Hangouts?

To message people who have Google accounts you can start by pressing on the "Message" button.

![Message button](images/08_hangouts/08_google_hangouts-8.png)

Afterwards you can enter the names, email, or phone number of the people you want to message. When you find the correct person you can simply click on them and that will open a conversation box. You can also create a group chat by pressing on the "New group" button.

### How to start a group conversation?

In Hangouts, you can have a video/audio/text conversation with multiple people at the same time. You can have a conversation with up to 150 people and a video call with up to 25 people at the same time. Everyone who wants to join a group conversation must use Hangouts. In order to start a conversation with multiple people click on New conversation and then click on New group.

![New Conversation](images/08_hangouts/08_google_hangouts-9.png)

Now, you can enter or select the names, phone numbers, or email addresses of all the people you want to add to the group. When you're done, you can click on the check mark and click on Message or Video call.


### Slides and Video

![Google Hangouts](https://youtu.be/CBiUP3Pj7mI)

* [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/14u2fp3D2t-umKnFOSfIxyDwfjIDMKJ9cBtqYUh_E93o/edit?usp=sharing)

{quiz, id: quiz_09_hangouts}

### Google Sheets quiz

? What is the maximum number of people you can video chat with in Google Hangouts?

a) 2
b) 5
C) 25
d) Unlimited

? Which one of the following is NOT a feature of Google Hangouts?

a) Audio conversations
b) Video conversations
c) Text conversations
D) Sending large attachments

{/quiz}
