manuscript/09_otherapps.md, before:

# Other Google cloud applications

There are lots of other cloud-based applications that are compatible with working on a Chromebook.  We have already talked about the main ones relevant to working as a data scientist.  Here we will briefly talk about two other useful applications -- YouTube and Google Maps.  

### YouTube

YouTube, as you likely know, is a video-sharing website that allows users to upload and view all sorts of videos.  The videos hosted on YouTube range from home videos to music videos, movie trailers, and TV shows. Access to the content on Youtube is free but comes with commercials (you have to only pay to watch videos free of commercials). In order to upload videos, you need to have a Google account, but watching the content does not require any login. However, you need to login if you want to rate or comment on a video.

For a data scientist, YouTube can be an excellent resource for video tutorials on tools and tips of the trade.  You can easily find step-by-step tutorials and other resources on any of the tools we've already discussed in this course by simply search YouTube.

##### Accessing YouTube

You can access YouTube by going to the URL [youtube.com](https://www.youtube.com/) in your web browser.  You can also click on the start menu located on the lower left hand corner of your Chromebook and searching for "YouTube".  

If you aren't logged into your Google account, you will arrive at a generic YouTube home page, where you can watch videos and search for specific video content.

![Generic YouTube Homepage](images/11_youtube/11_google_youtube-2.png)

If you want to get more personalized results or create your own playlists, you should log in via your Google account. YouTube is good with learning about your preferences. If you watch a video that is about how to import data into R, YouTube will suggest more videos related to those keywords to you. There are various ways you can find videos on YouTube.

- By browsing channels via the link https://www.youtube.com/channels. You can browse channels from news and politics to technology.
- By searching videos by typing keywords in the search bar. For instance if you type "What is data science?", YouTube will find around 22 million videos.
- By viewing the charts ranking the Most Popular videos in any given category by clicking on the Trending icon on the left menu.

Note that you can filter your results when you search for specific keywords by clicking on the Filter icon on the top right corner. For instance, you can filter based on the length of the video or the time it was posted.

![Filter Results](images/11_youtube/11_google_youtube-3.png)

##### Data science on YouTube

For our purposes, here is a list of some of the most popular YouTube channels on data science.

![Data science channels](images/11_youtube/11_google_youtube-4.png)

##### How to save videos to watch later

Sometimes you may find an interesting video on YouTube, but you are too busy to watch it right away. There are a couple of options. You can either favorite a video by liking a video, or you can add the video to a playlist as shown in the picture.

![Liking and Adding to Playlist](images/11_youtube/11_google_youtube-5.png)

To find the videos you liked previously, you can click on Liked videos on the left menu.

![Liked Videos](images/11_youtube/11_google_youtube-6.png)

Overall, YouTube will be a great place to go to for finding answers to your questions. There are millions of videos explaining things that you might not know about or pertaining to topics that you don't want to read pages and pages of text in order to understand. Sometimes a good 5-minute video can be the most efficient way to get the information you need.


### Google Maps

You must have already worked with or at least heard of Google Maps. Google Maps is part of the lives of many people around the world: from finding the best route to a friend's house to finding the closest gas station to finding the best public transit to work.

Google Maps is Google's mapping service that offers street maps, 360 degree panoramic view of street, satellite images, and real-time traffic in roads. Maps is free and is accessible through your Chrome browser (or any browser) or as an app on your phone. Let us see some of the main features of Google Maps:

### Getting Directions

Whether you walk, ride your bike, drive, or use public transportation, you can use Google Maps to get directions. Google Maps finds a list of the shortest routes that have the least traffic. It also knows bus or subway times for most big cities and adjusts your travel time based on your mode of transportation. You can review the route by checking out the turn-by-turn direction. In order to find direction to your destination, first enter your destination address and then select *Directions*. You can then enter your starting location (or leaving it as your current location). If you enter, Maps will suggest different routes to you (or just one route). By default, the shortest one is selected and other routes are shown in grey. You can easily change the mode of transportation by selecting different icons shown on the top left corner (car, train, etc.).

![Finding Directions on Google Maps](images/09_maps/09_google_maps-1.png)

If you click on OPTIONS, you can impose some restriction for the best route. For instance, if you are driving, you can choose to avoid tolls by clicking on OPTIONS and checking the box before Avoid Tolls.

![Google Maps options](images/09_maps/09_google_maps-2.png)

You can also use this feature as a GPS navigator. If you are using Google Maps on your phone, Maps will synchronize your current location with the route directions and uses automated voice to guide you step by step along your route. 

These are some of the tips for a better search for an address on Google Maps:

- You can type the full address: 456 Union Ave Baltimore MD.
- You can only type an intersection: Broadway and 23rd.
- You can simply type the latitude and longitude coordinates of a location: 35.71883, 139.77652.
- If you are logged in to your Google account and have your friend's name and address saved as a Google contact, you can just type their name: David Rhodes.

A convenient feature of Google Maps is that it prioritizes the places you have already searched to in your new search and suggests them to you so you don't have to type in the whole address. You can also save an address as your work or home address. So instead of typing your complete work or home address, you can just type "work" or "home" and Google Maps will show directions to your addresses. For this you should click on the three bars menu on the top left corner and select "Your places". Try adding your home or work address to your Google Maps if you like.

![Your places on Google Maps](images/09_maps/09_google_maps-3.png)

### Finding Local Businesses

Beyond directions, Google Maps can also help you with finding businesses, their ratings, their contact info, and their working hours. If you know the name of the business or public place, simply type the name and Maps will show the information regarding the place. If, however, you are just looking for a post office, or a bar without having any specific place in mind, you can just type in "post office" or "bar" and Maps will show a list of places near you using the GPS on your phone or your IP address on your Chromebook.

These are some of the tips for a better search on Google Maps:

- You can type a specific business: Burger King.
- You can narrow your results: Burger King in Brooklyn NY.
- You can be even more specific: Burger King in 11211.
- You can type a place with an approximate location: coffee near Central Park.

### Slides and Video

![Google Maps](https://youtu.be/tCenyltXuB4)

* [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1lLk0rFZaKOUSzSSw_6pPhvwqR-L2eusmaw0yc-qQADI/edit?usp=sharing)

{quiz, id: quiz_11_google_maps}

### Google Maps quiz

? Which of the following is not a feature when using YouTube?

A) Downloading videos
b) Creating playlists
c) Saving videos for later
d) Uploading videos

? What are the different modes of transportation when using Google Maps for directions?

a) Transit
b) Walking
c) Biking
D) All of the above

? Which one of the following is not what you can do using Google Maps?

a) Finding the nearest restaurants
b) Finding directions to a specific address
c) Finding working hours for a specific business
D) Sending messages to a specific business

{/quiz}

Commit message:

Updated YouTube section; still need to update Google Maps

manuscript/09_otherapps.md, after:

# Other Google cloud applications

There are lots of other cloud-based applications that are compatible with working on a Chromebook.  We have already talked about the main ones relevant to working as a data scientist.  Here we will briefly talk about two other useful applications -- YouTube and Google Maps.  

### YouTube

YouTube, as you likely know, is a video-sharing website that allows users to upload and view all sorts of videos.  The videos hosted on YouTube range from home videos to music videos, movie trailers, and TV shows. Access to the content on Youtube is free but comes with commercials (you have to only pay to watch videos free of commercials). In order to upload videos, you need to have a Google account, but watching the content does not require any login. However, you need to login if you want to rate or comment on a video.

For a data scientist, YouTube can be an excellent resource for video tutorials on tools and tips of the trade.  You can easily find step-by-step tutorials and other resources on any of the tools we've already discussed in this course by simply searching YouTube.

##### Accessing YouTube

You can access YouTube by going to the URL [youtube.com](https://www.youtube.com/) in your web browser.  You can also click on the start menu located on the lower left hand corner of your Chromebook and searching for "YouTube".  

If you aren't logged into your Google account, you will arrive at a generic YouTube home page, where you can watch videos and search for specific video content.  You can search for content using the search box at the top of the screen.  If you want to get more personalized results or create your own playlists, you should log in via your Google account.  You can do this by clicking on on the "SIGN IN" link in the top right corner of the screen.

![Generic YouTube Homepage](images/11_youtube/11_google_youtube-2.png)

On your personal YouTube home page, you will see YouTube's recommendations for videos that you might like to watch.  YouTube is also good with learning about your preferences. If you watch a video that is about how to import data into R, YouTube will suggest more videos related to those keywords to you.  You can also easily locate videos you've already watched by clicking on "History" in the left-side menu.   

![Personal YouTube Homepage](images/11_youtube/11_google_youtube-2.png)

##### Finding videos

There are various ways you can find relevant videos on YouTube:

* By viewing the charts ranking the Most Popular videos in any given category by clicking on the Trending icon on the left menu.
* By browsing channels via the link https://www.youtube.com/channels. You can browse channels from news and politics to technology.
* By searching videos by typing keywords in the search bar. For instance if you type "What is data science?", YouTube will find around 22 million videos.

![Search results](images/11_youtube/11_google_youtube-6.png)

Note that you can filter your results when you search for specific keywords by clicking on the Filter icon on the top right corner. For instance, you can filter based on the length of the video or the time it was posted.

![Filter Results](images/11_youtube/11_google_youtube-7.png)

##### Data science on YouTube

For our purposes, here is a list of some of the most popular YouTube channels on data science.  You can find any of these channels by searching for the name, for example "Data Science Dojo," in the YouTube Search box.  You can then subscribe to the channel by clicking the red "Subscribe" box on the right. 

![Data science channels](images/11_youtube/11_google_youtube-8.png)

You can find the channels that you have subscribed to under the "Subscriptions" section in the left-hand menu of your YouTube home page.

![Subscriptions](images/11_youtube/11_google_youtube-9.png)

##### How to save videos to watch later

Sometimes you may discover an interesting video on YouTube, but may be too busy to watch it right away.  One way to save the video so you can watch it later is to "like" the video by clicking the "thumbs up" icon below the video screen. 

![Liking a video](images/11_youtube/11_google_youtube-10.png)

This will add the video to your favorites, which can be found under "Liked videos" in the left-hand menu on your YouTube home page.

![Favorite videos](images/11_youtube/11_google_youtube-11.png)

Overall, YouTube is be a great place to go to for finding answers to your questions. There are millions of videos explaining things that you might not know about or pertaining to topics that you don't want to read pages and pages of text in order to understand. Sometimes a good 5-minute video can be the most efficient way to get the information you need.


### Google Maps

A second Google cloud application that you may find useful is Google Maps.  Google Maps is Google's mapping service that offers street maps, 360 degree panoramic view of street, satellite images, and real-time traffic in roads. Maps is free and is accessible through your Chrome browser (or any browser) or as an app on your phone.  Google Maps can be useful for things like finding the best route to a friend's house, locating the closet gas station to your current location, or  finding the best public transit to work.

 Let us see some of the main features of Google Maps:

### Getting Directions

Whether you walk, ride your bike, drive, or use public transportation, you can use Google Maps to get directions. Google Maps finds a list of the shortest routes that have the least traffic. It also knows bus or subway times for most big cities and adjusts your travel time based on your mode of transportation. You can review the route by checking out the turn-by-turn direction. In order to find direction to your destination, first enter your destination address and then select *Directions*. You can then enter your starting location (or leaving it as your current location). If you enter, Maps will suggest different routes to you (or just one route). By default, the shortest one is selected and other routes are shown in grey. You can easily change the mode of transportation by selecting different icons shown on the top left corner (car, train, etc.).

![Finding Directions on Google Maps](images/09_maps/09_google_maps-1.png)

If you click on OPTIONS, you can impose some restriction for the best route. For instance, if you are driving, you can choose to avoid tolls by clicking on OPTIONS and checking the box before Avoid Tolls.

![Google Maps options](images/09_maps/09_google_maps-2.png)

You can also use this feature as a GPS navigator. If you are using Google Maps on your phone, Maps will synchronize your current location with the route directions and uses automated voice to guide you step by step along your route. 

These are some of the tips for a better search for an address on Google Maps:

- You can type the full address: 456 Union Ave Baltimore MD.
- You can only type an intersection: Broadway and 23rd.
- You can simply type the latitude and longitude coordinates of a location: 35.71883, 139.77652.
- If you are logged in to your Google account and have your friend's name and address saved as a Google contact, you can just type their name: David Rhodes.

A convenient feature of Google Maps is that it prioritizes the places you have already searched to in your new search and suggests them to you so you don't have to type in the whole address. You can also save an address as your work or home address. So instead of typing your complete work or home address, you can just type "work" or "home" and Google Maps will show directions to your addresses. For this you should click on the three bars menu on the top left corner and select "Your places". Try adding your home or work address to your Google Maps if you like.

![Your places on Google Maps](images/09_maps/09_google_maps-3.png)

### Finding Local Businesses

Beyond directions, Google Maps can also help you with finding businesses, their ratings, their contact info, and their working hours. If you know the name of the business or public place, simply type the name and Maps will show the information regarding the place. If, however, you are just looking for a post office, or a bar without having any specific place in mind, you can just type in "post office" or "bar" and Maps will show a list of places near you using the GPS on your phone or your IP address on your Chromebook.

These are some of the tips for a better search on Google Maps:

- You can type a specific business: Burger King.
- You can narrow your results: Burger King in Brooklyn NY.
- You can be even more specific: Burger King in 11211.
- You can type a place with an approximate location: coffee near Central Park.

### Slides and Video

![Google Maps](https://youtu.be/tCenyltXuB4)

* [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1lLk0rFZaKOUSzSSw_6pPhvwqR-L2eusmaw0yc-qQADI/edit?usp=sharing)

{quiz, id: quiz_11_google_maps}

### Google Maps quiz

? Which of the following is not a feature when using YouTube?

A) Downloading videos
b) Creating playlists
c) Saving videos for later
d) Uploading videos

? What are the different modes of transportation when using Google Maps for directions?

a) Transit
b) Walking
c) Biking
D) All of the above

? Which one of the following is not what you can do using Google Maps?

a) Finding the nearest restaurants
b) Finding directions to a specific address
c) Finding working hours for a specific business
D) Sending messages to a specific business

{/quiz}
