scripts/00_cloud_script.md, before:

It's hard to find data scientists who don't work with the cloud and cloud computing is the talk of the town these days. But what is the cloud?

Cloud storage refers to data/document storage on the web rather than your local computer. If you share documents via Dropbox, have your documents stores on Google Drive, or store all your pictures on iCloud or Google Photos, you are using the cloud. Using the Cloud is like having an external hard drive that you don't ever see and can't acutally hold in your hands. For data analysis, Cloud computing uses applications and software that run on shared data centers rather than running on the computer sitting in front of you. Cloud computing has changed the way we think about data analytics especially when it comes to working with big data. We no longer need to spend thousands of dollars to own high-capacity computers to do big data analytics. Your local computer no longer has to do all the heavy lifting. Instead, the network of computers (from Amazon, IBM, Microsoft among many others) will do the job instead. Your computer will only need to run the interface software, which in most cases is just your Internet browser. In future lessons we will study cloud-based data analytics in details.

Well, the main advantage of the cloud is that you can access your files everywhere even if you don't have your personal computer with you. The second most important advantage of cloud storage is that in case of a disaster (accidental deletion of files, stolen computer, fire, or meteor attack) your files are safe on the cloud. Moreover, most services provide backup services in case of accidental deletion of your files from the cloud. This allows for accidentally deleted files to be recovered and restored. The third advantage that comes with cloud computing is more power as we initially discussed. Remote machines that you use from the cloud to do your data analysis are much faster and more powerful than your personal computer. Lastly, when you run software locally you constantly need to maintain them but making sure they're up and running and are up to date. You must download and install the newest version of the software or even pay for each new edition. Cloud storage and computing puts the responsibility on the service provider. Service providers make sure the software is well-maintained and running optimally.

Maybe the most obvious problem with cloud computing is that you always need an internet connection to use storage and computing power from the cloud. There are also concerns with the privacy and security of your data stored remotely. There are two sides to the issue. One is concerned with cloud-based service providers and how they need to ensure the files stored at their data centers are safe and secure and the other is concerned with users and how they need to take authentication measures and strong passwords. Most of the main cloud-based service providers do a good job in securing your data. Specifically, their infrastructure is set up so that you can easily avoid security issues with your data by being serious about your choice of password and by using two-level authentication.

Commit message:

Fix typos. Add brief explanation on 2-factor auth

scripts/00_cloud_script.md, after:

It's hard to find data scientists who don't work with the cloud and cloud computing is the talk of the town these days. But what is the cloud?

Cloud storage refers to data/document storage on the web rather than your local computer. If you share documents via Dropbox, have your documents stored on Google Drive, or store all your pictures on iCloud or Google Photos, you are using the cloud. Using the Cloud is like having an external hard drive that you don't ever see and can't acutally hold in your hands. For data analysis, Cloud computing uses applications and software that run on shared data centers rather than running on the computer sitting in front of you. Cloud computing has changed the way we think about data analytics especially when it comes to working with big data. We no longer need to spend thousands of dollars to own high-capacity computers to do big data analytics. Your local computer no longer has to do all the heavy lifting. Instead, the network of computers (from Amazon, IBM, Microsoft among many others) will do the job instead. Your computer will only need to run the interface software, which in most cases is just your Internet browser. In future lessons we will study cloud-based data analytics in detail.

The main advantage of the cloud is that you can access your files everywhere even if you don't have your personal computer with you. The second most important advantage of cloud storage is that in case of a disaster (accidental deletion of files, stolen computer, fire, or meteor attack) your files are safe on the cloud. Moreover, most services provide backup services in case of accidental deletion of your files from the cloud. This allows for accidentally deleted files to be recovered and restored. The third advantage that comes with cloud computing is the increased computing power that we initially discussed. Remote machines that you use from the cloud to do your data analysis are much faster and more powerful than your personal computer. Lastly, when you run software locally, you constantly need to maintain them by making sure that they are still running and are up to date. You must download and install the newest version of the software or even pay for each new edition. Cloud storage and computing puts the responsibility on the service provider. Service providers make sure the software is well-maintained and running optimally.

Maybe the most obvious problem with cloud computing is that you always need an internet connection to use storage and computing power from the cloud. There are also concerns with the privacy and security of your data stored remotely. There are two sides to the issue. One side is concerned with cloud-based service providers and how they need to ensure that the files stored at their data centers are safe and secure. The second side is concerned with users and how they need to take authentication measures and use strong passwords. Most of the main cloud-based service providers do a good job in securing your data. Specifically, their infrastructure is set up so that you can easily avoid security issues with your data by being serious about your choice of password and by using two-factor authentication. Briefly, two-factor authentication is a way of proving your identity to a service provider in two ways. The first way that is most familiar is by providing a password. The second way involves using a physical object in your possession, such as a phone. Often times a code will be sent to your phone to provide an additional step of verification that the person trying to sign in is indeed you. You will learn more about two-factor authentication in a later lesson.
