scripts/04_drive_script.md, before:

Google drive is a storage service. It enables us to store any documents (including images, videos, and documents) online. Also, it can help us do work together on the same documents or slides at the same time. You can edit and store slides and documents on Google Drive. To use Google Drive follow these steps.

In Chrome go to www.google.com/drive. You will see picture like this. Click on "Go to Google Drive" and you will land on Google Drive home page.

While Google Drive is generous in terms of how much space users have on the cloud compared to similar products, the amount of storage you get is not unlimited. Your free account comes with 15GB of storage. You have to pay for the service if 15 gigabytes is not enough: $1.99 per month buys you 100 gigabytes of storage and $9.99 (as of February 2018) buys you 1TB of storage. Note that this 15 gigabytes is shared among all Google services such as Gmail and Drive. So part of this storage may be used by your email attachments. The advantage of Google Drive is that all your files are stored online so they are more secure and are accessible whenever you want them. However, sometimes when you don't have access to the internet you may want to access your files offline. You can easily make Google Drive files available offline on your Chromebook. Follow these steps. 

When online, install the Google Docs Offline extension by clicking on Add to Chrome. (If the button says "Added to Chrome," you've already installed the extension.)

Then go to Google Drive settings and in the "Offline" area, check the box. It might take a few minutes for the offline access setting to turn on. You can work on your files offline now. Any changes will sync to Google Drive the next time your Chromebook connects to the Internet.

One of the best advantages of Google Drive is the ability to share files and folders. You can share the files and folders that you store in Google Drive with anyone using their email address (preferably their Gmail account). You can allow those people to edit, comment on, or only view the file. Editing gives more freedom to the person. They can change or even delete the file so be cautious. In order to share a file or folder click with two fingers on the file or folder and choose Share from the menu.

In the window that opens, enter the email address of the person you want to share the file/folder with and choose whether the person can edit, comment, or only view the content. If for some reason you want to stop sharing a file/folder that you have already shared, click with two fingers on the file/folder and choose Share again. In the bottom right corner of the window that pops up, click on Advanced. There you'll see a list of people you've shared the files/folders with. On the right of each name/email there is a cross, <img src="./img/05_googledrive/07_cross.png" width="150">. By clicking on it, you will remove access of that person to the file/folder. Click Save changes at the end.

Deleting files on Google Drive is easy. On the web interface, click with two fingers on any file you would like to delete and choose Remove from the menu. You can delete multiple files or folders by selecting them all while holding the Ctrl key. Once selected, you can click with two fingers and remove them. If you mistakenly delete a file or change your mind after deleting a file, recovering a removed file on Google Drive is easy. Simply click on Trash on the left-hand menu in the web interface.

In Trash you can see a list of all the files that you have previously removed. Then, click with two fingers on the the file and select Restore.

If you're sure that you won't need the file forever, you can empty up some space by selecting the file(s)/folder(s) and clicking on Delete forever. By doing so your files will be deleted forever from your drive and can't be recovered. Use it with caution!

Google Drive encrypts your data before storing it. Encryption is any method that converts data to to encoded version for security purposes. Drive is encrypted using SSL, the same security protocol used on Gmail and other Google services. However, you're responsible for securing your Google account. Our suggestion is to use Google's 2-step verification. By using Two-Step Verification (also known as two-factor authentication), you add an extra layer of security to your account. This requires you to enter your password and on top of that enter a code that is sent to your phone or email. To set up two-step verification on your Google Account (which then applies to all Google products), go to Two-Step Verification on Google and select Get started and follow the step-by-step setup process.

Commit message:

added a section to the lesson on google drive

scripts/04_drive_script.md, after:

Google drive is a storage service. It enables us to store any documents (including images, videos, and documents) online. Also, it can help us do work together on the same documents or slides at the same time. You can edit and store slides and documents on Google Drive. To use Google Drive follow these steps.

In Chrome go to www.google.com/drive. You will see picture like this. Click on "Go to Google Drive" and you will land on Google Drive home page.

While Google Drive is generous in terms of how much space users have on the cloud compared to similar products, the amount of storage you get is not unlimited. Your free account comes with 15GB of storage. You have to pay for the service if 15 gigabytes is not enough: $1.99 per month buys you 100 gigabytes of storage and $9.99 (as of February 2018) buys you 1TB of storage. Note that this 15 gigabytes is shared among all Google services such as Gmail and Drive. So part of this storage may be used by your email attachments. The advantage of Google Drive is that all your files are stored online so they are more secure and are accessible whenever you want them. However, sometimes when you don't have access to the internet you may want to access your files offline. You can easily make Google Drive files available offline on your Chromebook. Follow these steps. 

When online, install the Google Docs Offline extension by clicking on Add to Chrome. (If the button says "Added to Chrome," you've already installed the extension.)

Then go to Google Drive settings and in the "Offline" area, check the box. It might take a few minutes for the offline access setting to turn on. You can work on your files offline now. Any changes will sync to Google Drive the next time your Chromebook connects to the Internet.

One of the best advantages of Google Drive is the ability to share files and folders. You can share the files and folders that you store in Google Drive with anyone using their email address (preferably their Gmail account). You can allow those people to edit, comment on, or only view the file. Editing gives more freedom to the person. They can change or even delete the file so be cautious. In order to share a file or folder click with two fingers on the file or folder and choose Share from the menu.

In the window that opens, enter the email address of the person you want to share the file/folder with and choose whether the person can edit, comment, or only view the content. If for some reason you want to stop sharing a file/folder that you have already shared, click with two fingers on the file/folder and choose Share again. In the bottom right corner of the window that pops up, click on Advanced. There you'll see a list of people you've shared the files/folders with. On the right of each name/email there is a cross, <img src="./img/05_googledrive/07_cross.png" width="150">. By clicking on it, you will remove access of that person to the file/folder. Click Save changes at the end.

Deleting files on Google Drive is easy. On the web interface, click with two fingers on any file you would like to delete and choose Remove from the menu. You can delete multiple files or folders by selecting them all while holding the Ctrl key. Once selected, you can click with two fingers and remove them. If you mistakenly delete a file or change your mind after deleting a file, recovering a removed file on Google Drive is easy. Simply click on Trash on the left-hand menu in the web interface.

In Trash you can see a list of all the files that you have previously removed. Then, click with two fingers on the the file and select Restore.

If you're sure that you won't need the file forever, you can empty up some space by selecting the file(s)/folder(s) and clicking on Delete forever. By doing so your files will be deleted forever from your drive and can't be recovered. Use it with caution!

You will soon notice that after using Google Drive a lot, it can get hard to keep everything organized. The good news is that you can organize your files in Google Drive quite easily. Our strong suggestion is to keep in files in folders. Each file on Google Drive has a specific purpose and belongs to a specific project so it makes sense to put similar files in the same folder. We will learn the best folder structure and naming convention in future lessons. But let's go over the basics of organization in Google Drive. For starters, creating a folder is easy. Click on NEW on the top left corner of Google Drive home page and then choose Folder. A new windows pops up. Type the name of your folder and click on CREATE.

Now that you have created a folder, you can start adding files to it. Let's assume you would like to add a Google Sheet that you created to a folder called data analysis project one. For this, in the Google Drive home page find the file and right click on it. A menue opens and in the menue choose Move to. 

There you can select the folder you would like your file to be moved to. 

If don't already have a folder, you can create one in the menue by clicking on the folder icon. You can also drag a file to a folder. Try it out! Click the mouse button to select a file and while keeping the mouse buttion pushed down move the file over to the folder and release the buttion. Lastly, note that you can delete a folder the same way that you delete a file but you have to be careful that by deleting a folder all the content in it will be deleted as well.

Google Drive encrypts your data before storing it. Encryption is any method that converts data to to encoded version for security purposes. Drive is encrypted using SSL, the same security protocol used on Gmail and other Google services. However, you're responsible for securing your Google account. Our suggestion is to use Google's 2-step verification. By using Two-Step Verification (also known as two-factor authentication), you add an extra layer of security to your account. This requires you to enter your password and on top of that enter a code that is sent to your phone or email. To set up two-step verification on your Google Account (which then applies to all Google products), go to Two-Step Verification on Google and select Get started and follow the step-by-step setup process.
