One of the benefits to using Google Drive is its suite of document editors, completely free to use and accessible anywhere online. One of Drive's primary applications is the web-based word document and text editor, Google Docs, which allows users to format and edit word documents with other users simultaneously. It is compatible with Microsoft Word files (.docx and older) and text files (.txt).  

Google Docs can be opened in multiple ways. The simplest option for starting a new document is going to the Google Docs URL https://docs.google.com. Under "Start a new document" select the blank option or any of the templates available. 

Clicking on "TEMPLATE GALLERY" will expand the template options to include "Resumes," "Letters," "Personal," "Work," and "Education" templates. 

Assuming that you are logged into your Google account, underneath the templates you will see the past documents that are saved on your Google Drive under the "Recent documents". Each of them can be opened and edited by clicking on them, which will redirect the current window to the old word document. You can sort by date modified or by title by clicking on the "A-Z" button.

In addition, you can open word documents through Google Drive, either through going to the URL https://drive.google.com or opening your file manager and opening the Google Drive tab on the left hand menu. Once in Google Drive, you can click on "New" and select "Google Docs" from the menu. One of the most convenient features of Google Drive and its applications is its auto save. As soon as the application detects a change in the file, it will periodically save without any prompt from the user. No more worries about losing progress when the power goes out, the internet disconnects, or even when a computer breaks down. 

Google Docs operates very similarly to Microsoft Word sans a couple of Word's more advanced features. However, most tasks can be done with Google Docs, from simple text editing to importing images and graphs to exporting documents as PDFs. If a stable internet connection is an issue or that plans have been made to work offline, Google Docs offers an offline mode that saves the word documents to the local computer. Even in offline mode, Google Docs will automatically save changes. To turn on offline mode. Go to the Google Docs. Click on the menu button. Then click on "Settings". 

Then toggle the "Offline" switch to on. Offline mode for Docs will also be applied to Google Sheets and Slides.

You can also download Google Docs documents in most common formats. You should click on "File" in the top menu and then select "Download as." You can then choose the format you want among the options including .pdf, .docx, .rtf, etc. For sharing documents you can follow the procedure we learned in the lesson on Google Drive.