You must have already worked with or at least heard of Google Maps. Google Maps is part of the lives of many people around the world: from finding the best route to a friend's house to finding the closest gas station to finding the best public transit to work. Google Maps is Google's mapping service that offers street maps, 360 degree panoramic view of street, satellite images, and real-time traffic in roads. Maps is free and is accessible through your Chrome browser (or any browser) or as an app on your phone. Let us see some of the main features of Google Maps.

Whether you walk, ride your bike, drive, or use public transportation, you can use Google Maps to get directions. Google Maps finds a list of the shortest routes that have the least traffic. It also knows bus or subway times for most big cities and adjusts your travel time based on your mode of transportation. You can review the route by checking out the turn-by-turn direction. In order to find direction to your destination, first enter your destination address and then select Directions. You can then enter your starting location (or leaving it as your current location). If you enter, Maps will suggest different routes to you (or just one route). By default, the shortest one is selected and other routes are shown in grey. You can easily change the mode of transportation by selecting different icons shown on the top left corner (car, train, etc.). You can also use Google Maps as a GPS navigator. If you are using Google Maps on your phone, Maps will synchronize your current location with the route directions and uses automated voice to guide you step by step along your route. 

These are some of the tips for a better search for an address on Google Maps. You can type the full address, You can only type an intersection, You can simply type the latitude and longitude coordinates of a location, and if you are logged in to your Google account and have your friend's name and address saved as a Google contact, you can just type their name.

If you click on OPTIONS, you can impose some restriction for the best route. For instance, if you are driving, you can choose to avoid tolls by clicking on OPTIONS and checking the box before Avoid Tolls.

A convenient feature of Google Maps is that it prioritizes the places you have already searched to in your new search and suggests them to you so you don't have to type in the whole address. You can also save an address as your work or home address so instead of typing your complete work or home address, you can just type "work" or "home" and Google Maps will show directions to your addresses. For this you should click on the three bars menu on the top left corner and select "Your places". Try adding your home or work address to your Google Maps if you like.

Beyond directions, Google Maps can also help you with finding businesses, their ratings, their contact info, and their working hours. If you know the name of the business or public place, simply type the name and Maps will show the information regarding the place. If, however, you are just looking for a post office, or a bar without having any specific place in mind, you can just type in "post office" or "bar" and Maps will show a list of places near you using the GPS on your phone or your IP address on your Chromebook. These are some of the tips for a better search on Google Maps. You can type a specific business, You can narrow your results, You can be even more specific, or You can type a place with an approximate location: coffee near Central Park.
