scripts/09_otherapps_script.md, before:

You must have already worked with or at least heard of Google Maps. Google Maps is part of the lives of many people around the world: from finding the best route to a friend's house to finding the closest gas station to finding the best public transit to work. Google Maps is Google's mapping service that offers street maps, 360 degree panoramic view of street, satellite images, and real-time traffic in roads. Maps is free and is accessible through your Chrome browser (or any browser) or as an app on your phone. Let us see some of the main features of Google Maps.

Whether you walk, ride your bike, drive, or use public transportation, you can use Google Maps to get directions. Google Maps finds a list of the shortest routes that have the least traffic. It also knows bus or subway times for most big cities and adjusts your travel time based on your mode of transportation. You can review the route by checking out the turn-by-turn direction. In order to find direction to your destination, first enter your destination address and then select Directions. You can then enter your starting location (or leaving it as your current location). If you enter, Maps will suggest different routes to you (or just one route). By default, the shortest one is selected and other routes are shown in grey. You can easily change the mode of transportation by selecting different icons shown on the top left corner (car, train, etc.). You can also use Google Maps as a GPS navigator. If you are using Google Maps on your phone, Maps will synchronize your current location with the route directions and uses automated voice to guide you step by step along your route. 

These are some of the tips for a better search for an address on Google Maps. You can type the full address, You can only type an intersection, You can simply type the latitude and longitude coordinates of a location, and if you are logged in to your Google account and have your friend's name and address saved as a Google contact, you can just type their name.

If you click on OPTIONS, you can impose some restriction for the best route. For instance, if you are driving, you can choose to avoid tolls by clicking on OPTIONS and checking the box before Avoid Tolls.

A convenient feature of Google Maps is that it prioritizes the places you have already searched to in your new search and suggests them to you so you don't have to type in the whole address. You can also save an address as your work or home address so instead of typing your complete work or home address, you can just type "work" or "home" and Google Maps will show directions to your addresses. For this you should click on the three bars menu on the top left corner and select "Your places". Try adding your home or work address to your Google Maps if you like.

Beyond directions, Google Maps can also help you with finding businesses, their ratings, their contact info, and their working hours. If you know the name of the business or public place, simply type the name and Maps will show the information regarding the place. If, however, you are just looking for a post office, or a bar without having any specific place in mind, you can just type in "post office" or "bar" and Maps will show a list of places near you using the GPS on your phone or your IP address on your Chromebook. These are some of the tips for a better search on Google Maps. You can type a specific business, You can narrow your results, You can be even more specific, or You can type a place with an approximate location: coffee near Central Park.

Commit message:

Updated YouTube section; still need to update Google Maps

scripts/09_otherapps_script.md, after:

There are lots of other cloud-based applications that are compatible with working on a Chromebook.  We have already talked about the main ones relevant to working as a data scientist.  Here we will briefly talk about two other useful applications -- YouTube and Google Maps.  

YouTube, as you likely know, is a video-sharing website that allows users to upload and view all sorts of videos.  The videos hosted on YouTube range from home videos to music videos, movie trailers, and TV shows. Access to the content on Youtube is free but comes with commercials (you have to only pay to watch videos free of commercials). In order to upload videos, you need to have a Google account, but watching the content does not require any login. However, you need to login if you want to rate or comment on a video.  For a data scientist, YouTube can be an excellent resource for video tutorials on tools and tips of the trade.  You can easily find step-by-step tutorials and other resources on any of the tools we've already discussed in this course by simply searching YouTube.

You can access YouTube by going to the URL www.youtube.com in your web browser.  You can also click on the start menu located on the lower left hand corner of your Chromebook and searching for "YouTube".  If you aren't logged into your Google account, you will arrive at a generic YouTube home page, where you can watch videos and search for specific video content.  You can search for content using the search box at the top of the screen.  If you want to get more personalized results or create your own playlists, you should log in via your Google account.  You can do this by clicking on on the "SIGN IN" link in the top right corner of the screen.

On your personal YouTube home page, you will see YouTube's recommendations for videos that you might like to watch.  YouTube is also good with learning about your preferences. If you watch a video that is about how to import data into R, YouTube will suggest more videos related to those keywords to you.  You can also easily locate videos you've already watched by clicking on "History" in the left-side menu. 

There are various ways you can find relevant videos on YouTube.  You can view the charts ranking the Most Popular videos in any given category by clicking on the Trending icon on the left menu.

You can browse channels via the link h t t p s : / / w w w . you tube . com / channels. You can browse channels from news and politics to technology.

You can search videos by typing keywords in the search bar. For instance if you type "What is data science?", YouTube will find around 22 million videos.

Note that you can filter your results when you search for specific keywords by clicking on the Filter icon on the top right corner. For instance, you can filter based on the length of the video or the time it was posted.

For our purposes, here is a list of some of the most popular YouTube channels on data science.  You can find any of these channels by searching for the name, for example "Data Science Dojo," in the YouTube Search box.  You can then subscribe to the channel by clicking the red "Subscribe" box on the right.

You can find the channels that you have subscribed to under the "Subscriptions" section in the left-hand menu of your YouTube home page.

Sometimes you may discover an interesting video on YouTube, but may be too busy to watch it right away.  One way to save the video so you can watch it later is to "like" the video by clicking the "thumbs up" icon below the video screen. 

This will add the video to your favorites, which can be found under "Liked videos" in the left-hand menu on your YouTube home page.  Overall, YouTube is be a great place to go to for finding answers to your questions. There are millions of videos explaining things that you might not know about or pertaining to topics that you don't want to read pages and pages of text in order to understand. Sometimes a good 5-minute video can be the most efficient way to get the information you need.
