Slack is a messaging platform designed to help you communicate with others in your workplace. Think of it like a group chat, but for work related subjects. A lot of companies and workplaces look down on using Facebook and Twitter for communication, seeing them more as social media platforms. Some places even ban the use of these platforms. However, Slack is being used by more and more companies as a communication tool. Slack can be accessed in two ways: online at slack.com/signin, or by downloading their mobile or their Chrome extension. There is little difference between the two, so you can choose based on your preferences.

We assume you already have a Slack account. To join a Slack team, you need an invitation similar to the one below.

Simply accept the invitation by clicking join. Slack needs some information before moving on. Enter your first and last name, along with your email in the required fields. Now, enter your password. Once again, it's better to choose a password that is different from your other passwords for security reasons. 

Slack works like any other messaging service. There are multiple channels. A large, general channel that can reach every employee using slack, team-sized channels that allows people who are working on a project together to discuss that project, and private messaging. You will automatically be invited to the general channel, and the moderator will assign you to the channel for your project. Once there, you can enter your comments. Sometimes channels will be private and can only be joined with an invitation. The messages on such a channel can only be seen by the users that have been added to it.

For private messages, you should click on the plus sign in front of Direct Messages. Then find the person you want to privately message and click on Go. Whatever you type in the window that appears in front of you can only be seen by the person you selected. Note that you can send private messages to a group of people. Sometimes also you post something in the public channels but want to get someone's attention. In this case you just use the at sign followed by their username, and they will get a notification about your post.

Lastly, you can see more details about a channel such as list of members, highlights, pinned items, etc. by clicking on the information button in the top right corner.